We now have a form, and
this form validates.
So we would probably like
to write a bunch of code
to validate that the form
behaves correctly,
so that it does cause invalidation if
I produce different values, right?
And so we can do that.
So I think, I don't know if
it will validate if I do it.
It was a minimum distance, no.
I see, it only validates when
I hit the button Cluster.
Okay, got you.
I don't remember what I wrote.
Right, so it has to be bigger than that.
Okay, so let's do that.
So what we can do now is write
more tests along this path, right?
So we can say, test(it
should print validation
errors when out of bound
parameters are passed in).
And we will, again,
follow the same pattern.
And so on a clusterPage,
we basically wanna say clusterPage.set.
Actually, let's navigate to
a clean page, and then we can say,
setDistance(1), clusterPage.submit,
expect(clusterPage.error).
So this should be
distanceError).toHaveText.
Something like that, right?
This is easy to read, right, from
a point of view of what the test does.
And so now, our job is to modify
the clusterPage, the page object,
to provide the code that is needed here,
right?
So let's create a setDistance.
So you do this.page, here we go.
That was helping, input[name=distance].
Yeah, here we go.
[name=distance], distance.toString.
Yeah, that seems right.
await, sorry, not expect, async.
So distanceError, that will be return
this.page.distanceError.
No, I think it's a different one,
what is it?
Inspect > Elements.
It is class error.distance, okay.
So .error.distance.
No, this is not sitting, right?
Let's type here.
That's gonna give me that.
And then the last thing
is gonna be page.click,
and it's cluster not button.
So now,
if we If we go back to our play right,
we should be able to validate this.
Looks like our click locator is not
working, so notice how it's hanging.
And it's trying, basically retrying,
and at some point,
it's gonna give up and say, I waited
long enough and it's no longer a thing.
So let's see.
The correct thing is Inspect,
it's button type= submit.
Okay, sorry.
So it's not that, it is, button-
>> Missing async.
>> Did I leave the async out?
Yes, I did.
I have a distanceError,
and this is mistyped.
Here we go.
There we go, now it's passing.
So you can see that we asserted in.
And the nice thing is when
you go up through this,
you can actually see what
it was clicking on, right?
You can see that it highlights,
this bit was filling this bit out,
then it clicked on a button,
and this showed up.
And so
all of the pieces that you have are there.
So the main strategy I wanna
point out in terms of testing is
this idea of page objects, right?
And again, it comes down to this idea of,
I wanna make sure my tests
are a form of documentation, therefore,
they need to be easy to read.
And I wanna have a test like this, right?
This is a test that I can easily read, and
people understand what's happening here.
And so now, we need a place to kinda
put all of the non-interesting bits.
And the non-interesting bits
basically go into your page object.
>> That also reads like something you
could show to a non-technical person,
a product manager or somebody like that,
and say like, hey, this is the-
>> Yeah, so
this is basically known as a DSL,
right, domain specific language.
And somebody was asking,
what is the job of a QA?
I think what would be useful,
if your QA's technical enough,
is to create these page objects,
right, and
essentially create this DSL so
that you can create complex scenarios.
For this particular case,
we only have one page object.
But you can imagine how you click on
a button to navigate to another place, and
then what you get back is a page
object for that navigation.
So you are, for example, on a clusterPage,
but you click on a settings, and
what you get back is the page object for
settings.
And now, you can do necessary
things with the settings.
You can go and change your preferences,
save it, and then go back to yet
another page, and then verify
that the correct output is there.
And so the DSL that you create
with these page objects
allows you to succinctly
express the intent.
Whether it's in the form of navigations or
in the form of reading the values out of
the page so you can assert the output.
>> Yeah, I mean,
that's how I use something like this.
I mean,
built it home grown a decade ago, but
I would take the QA test case, and
then I would write it into code.
And I would just do that over and
over again until the software
was basically just bulletproof,
cuz I had hundred of these things
covering all sorts of edge cases.
That's the problem with unit
tests is you can't get the whole
application running [LAUGH] and
those edge cases worked out.
And like interplaying,
you fix one line of code and
now three edge cases break,
or something like that.
Whereas these end up be
more difficult to write.
There's a lot more pieces involved,
but at the end of the day,
it really makes your software,
I think, bulletproof.
>> It also is a little bit slower
to execute than a unit test, right?
And also, if you go back over here,
we're actually running this
on a real data set, right?
So it will be the kinda difficult to
provide assertions about the dataset.
I could imagine that in the page object,
I could write some code to go and
reverse engineer all the tags that
I inserted inside of the cluster.
And then recover back the original data
and then assert the original data.
I could kinda imagine that, but it's
not really how you wanna do it, right?
You really wanna break
this down into pieces and
test different things
in different locations.
So the primary reason for
the end-to-end test is to make
sure that the happy flows
connect all the pieces, right?
If you think of your application,
your application
are lots of independent parts that
are glued together with some connections.
And while you can easily
test individual piece,
you're never quite sure whether you
hooked up all the connections correctly.
And so the end-to-end test is a really
good way of proving to yourself
that everything is wired
together as a unit.
>> But you're right, they do become
really slow if you get too many of them.
>> So it's a tradeoff between speed,
and something goes wrong.
The other kind of a tradeoff that you have
over here is when the unit test fails,
you are only to testing a small unit.
So you know that the problem is inside
of that small unit that you're testing,
whether it's a function or
a class or a file.
But if something fails here,
it could be anywhere, right?
So these are different tradeoffs
that you have to kind of think
about when building software.